---
title: Pwning Santa before the bad guys do
date: 2025-12-10
---

Once upon a time, Santa Claus received letters from children all over the world, delivered by trusty postal workers. But times have changed! With kids more online than ever, Santa had to adapt and start opening letters in digital form.

Enter **Kenny Longears**, an elf in Santa's security team (yes, Virginia, Santa has one)! 🧝 Kenny always preferred the ol' paper format. That way, he didn't need to worry about worms, bugs, and other pests that have no place in the North Pole. Begrudgingly, he yielded to the new era and set up [Dangerzone](https://dangerzone.rocks/) in Santa's laptop to safely open email attachments. But wait! Kenny, being the cautious elf he is, decided to challenge Santa's red team to find vulnerabilities in Dangerzone before the naughty hackers do.

## The challenge

Craft a *naughty* letter that can demonstrably bypass some or all of Dangerzone's defenses and earn a bounty 💰.

> **ℹ️ Quick recap of how Dangerzone works**
> 
> Dangerzone sanitizes documents in a secure sandbox, in a process that is similar to a photocopy. It does so by spinning up a [Podman](https://podman.io/) container, which spins up a [gVisor](https://gvisor.dev/) sandbox, which in turn reads a document. The sandbox then converts the document into a PDF, and the PDF pages into pixels. The Dangerzone logic that runs on the host converts the pixels to images, optionally OCRs them, and then creates a PDF. This PDF looks like the original document, but is safe to read and share with others.
> 
> More info:
>
> * [About Dangerzone](https://dangerzone.rocks/about/)  
> * [Safe Ride into the Dangerzone: Reducing attack surface with gVisor](https://dangerzone.rocks/news/2024-09-23-gvisor/)

To demonstrate your attack, you can send a PR to [https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/](https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/) with a specially crafted document, and a [CI job](https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/blob/main/.github/workflows/submit.yml) will sanitize it with Dangerzone. The catch here is that this CI job plants **three** flags in the following locations:

1. **The sandbox where the document turns into pixels** (`/home/dangerzone/raster.flag` within the gVisor sandbox).  
2. **The container that spawns the gVisor sandbox for the conversion** (`/gvisor.flag` within the Podman container).  
3. **The host of the CI job, where Dangerzone is installed** (`~/secrets/host.flag` file in the host).

If you manage to capture one or more of these flags, add them in the sanitized document or print them to `stderr` from the conversion sandbox. The CI job will detect it, and the submission will be considered a success.

## The bounty

Capturing a flag varies in difficulty. Dangerzone operates under the assumption that attackers can find vulnerabilities in the programs we use for rasterization (LibreOffice and PyMuPDF). Therefore, the `raster.flag` is expected to be captured at some point. The `gvisor.flag` flag requires escaping the gVisor sandbox, which is much, *much* more difficult. And the `~/secrets/host` flag requires combining a gVisor sandbox escape and a Linux container escape at the same time, which we haven't seen yet in the wild.

Each flag is backed by a bounty, and the first PR that captures it gets that bounty 🤑. The bounty levels are:

1. 🥇 `~/secrets/host.flag` in the host: **$1,700.**
2. 🥈 `/gvisor.flag` within the Podman container: **$1,000.**
3. 🥉 `/home/dangerzone/raster.flag` within the gVisor sandbox: **$300.**

A PR can capture multiple flags at once, in which case it can get the full bounty, i.e., **$3,000**. Note that each flag can be captured once, since we need to cap the total payout to **$3,000** across all submissions. In case of multiple submissions that capture the same flag, the first one wins 🏁.

## Get started

1. Fork [https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/](https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/).  
2. Craft your document (see [supported types](https://github.com/freedomofpress/dangerzone?tab=readme-ov-file#some-features)) with the payload in it.  
3. Encrypt the document using [Kenny's public key](https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn-dangerzone/blob/main/kenny.asc).

    ```shell

    gpg --import < kenny.asc
    gpg --recipient kenny@santa.club --encrypt ./letter
    ```

4. Submit a PR and let the games begin! 🥳

## FAQ

### 1. Why do we encrypt documents when we submit them?

There are two primary reasons for encrypting your submissions. First, this is a public challenge, and we want to protect your ideas from being copied by others. Second, and more importantly, we aim to prevent real-world attackers from observing potential exploits and targeting our users. Encryption helps maintain the integrity and security of the challenge.

### 2. What happens on a successful submission?

If your submission is successful, you will own the exploit and the bounty. We will assist you in reaching out to the affected parties and help you claim any additional bounties they may offer for the vulnerability.

### 3. Can I experiment with this challenge locally?

Absolutely! You are encouraged to install Dangerzone locally and experiment with creating a document that can read a file from your PC during the sanitization process. Check out our [CI job](https://github.com/freedomofpress/santa-pwn/blob/main/.github/workflows/submit.yml) as well, to see how we plant the flags for the challenge. Once you have crafted your document, feel free to submit the encrypted version as a PR. Happy experimenting!

### 4. Does my submission have to pass the sanitization step?

If your submission cannot be sanitized, this means that we can't check for the captured flag in the resulting document. That's not a problem, though, since we look for flags in the conversion logs as well. If you capture a flag, you can print it to the process' stderr, and it will be included in the conversion logs. You should see it in the output of the CI job as well.

### 5. Can I submit any other types of issues?

If they undermine Dangerzone's security, you are encouraged to submit them via [our Bugcrowd account](https://bugcrowd.com/engagements/freedomofpress), and we _may_ assign a payout according to their severity, e.g., what flag they would potentially capture.

If they target this CI job, then they are considered out of scope.

### 6. Are we living in such desperate times that people will burn a gVisor/kernel 0-day for anything less than six figures?

Of course not! We are living in the merriest of times, where people can contribute their talent to spyware companies, enjoy a big payout, and sleep soundly at night! But at the same time, and let's be real for a second, no one will waste six figures to break Dangerzone. And if they do, this means that Dangerzone will have succeeded in protecting all the rest of the users that are not economically viable targets.

The scenario we want to avoid, though, is having a bug lying around that makes it trivial to bypass the defense layers Dangerzone employs. That's what we're looking for here, and the sanitization logic, for that matter, is pretty small. So, hopefully, this bounty will incentivize some folks to give our repo a look.

### 7. Is this a CTF challenge, or a bug bounty program?

It's a capped bug bounty program. The backstory is this: Dangerzone has never had a bug bounty program, [as its sister project, SecureDrop, has](https://bugcrowd.com/engagements/freedomofpress). Our team has managed to secure some money from the bug bounty pool that was not spent this year and decided to give a festive spin to it because, well, why not? We hope that at some point in the future, we'll have an actual bug bounty program in place.