---
title: 0.10.0 Release Candidate 1 - Call for testing
date: 2025-09-29
---

We're pleased to announce the First Release Candidate (RC1) of Dangerzone `0.10.0`.

This release introduces two major changes:

1. **Embedded Podman**: on Windows and macOS, the Podman container engine is now embedded into the software, removing the need to install and manage a Docker or Podman installation.
2. **Independent Container Updates**: It is now possible to automatically update the the sandbox, which is used to securely convert documents. As a result, it is easier to distribute updates to the container, making our users more secure.

## Help us test dangerzone!

These two changes are drastically changing how Dangerzone operate, especially on Windows and macOS. We have tested on our machines that it is working as intended, but would like to have more people trying it out and reporting errors if they arise.

If you want to help us, here is what to do:

1. Download the dangerzone `0.10.0` `RC1` release [here](<link>) ;
2. Install it locally.
3. Start Dangerzone for the first time. You should see Dangerzone initializing itself. Select a document and convert it.
4. Quit Dangerzone.
5. Start Dangerzone for the second time. You should be prompted about enabling Independent Container Updates. **Say yes**.
6. Quit Dangerzone.
7. Start Dangerzone for the third time.
8. A sandbox update should be triggered. Once complete, run a conversion.

During these steps, if you encounter any error, please either send us a mail at `support@dangerzone.rocks` or open an issue in [our bug tracker](https://github.com/freedomofpress/dangerzone/issues/new/).

Thanks a lot!